Nick-Q1:  Describe one specific distributed system, technical challenge, or design decision the speaker discussed. What was the problem, and how was it addressed?

One problem Nick discussed was the fact that Discord can crash sometimes, and when it does, the dev team needs detailed information on what happened so that they can fix the issue. The team used an intricate tracing feature which works much better than just normal runtime metrics. This tracing feature allows the team to know how long it takes for each component in a section of their codebase to run. This helps pinpoint the issue of the crashes, allowing the dev team to fix bugs quick and fast.

Nick-Q2: What aspect of the speaker's experience did you find most interesting or surprising, and why?

I found most interesting how Nick was able to show us Discord's architecture in a very simple and abstracted way. This is because I gained insight into how an app I used everyday can power a fast and quick experience for users. I also got insight into how tracing works, as Nick specifically mentioned practical issues such as not being able to trace all events in the system, and having to randomly sample a percentage based on the number of sessions.

Nick-Q3: How does the speaker's work or experience connect to a concept we have covered in this course (e.g., MapReduce, GFS, Raft, replication, consistency, fault tolerance, naming, RPCs)? Be specific about the connection.

Nick specifically mentioned that an RPC is performed to start a session to find user information. We learned about RPCs in class as RPCs provide a great way to run functions that are run on an external codebase.

Grant-Q1: Grant specifically mentioned that he had to deal with different model capacity changes, which happen quite often, as well as teams being able to hog resources, such as calls to LLM provider APIs. To solve this, Grant created a mechanism which made it easy to find which models teams have access to as well as knowing when specific team members are hogging resources. 

Grant-Q2: It was interesting to me that Grant gave us insight into how model pricing and tracking works for a large variety of customers. I like the systems behind ML, and so I liked that Grant gave us some insight into how some real world ML applications such as LLMs are tracked in his work.

Grant-Q3: Grant specifically mentioned that he uses the Go programming language in his work, something that we learned due to Go's ease in handling concurrency, which was vital to Grant since many people want to access models at the same time. Grant specifically used Go maps and Gos concurrency primitives to help him update live configs, which saves state in memory.


Ankit-Q1: Ankit showed the challenges of routing Google's network traffic through a bike application example. Specifically, he mentioned the challenge of a user being physically located further away from their servers would likely lead to high latency results. As a result, Ankit added load balancers and servers all across the world, to be able to serve all kinds of users in different locations, ensruing they get low latency and consistent results.

Ankit-Q2: I found it interesting how we got a real world view from first principles of how to design an application that scales to users across the world, something not often seen. I specifically was curious since Google Cloud Pro allows use cases for deep learning compute, so I was interested to see how Google handles large scale requests to compute that may not be available all across the world.

Ankit-Q3: Ankit specifically mentioned the importance of CAP, something we learned in class, which stands for consistency, availability, and partition tolerance. He specifically mentioned their product required fast, low-latency, and scalable results, as well as data consistency. This meant Ankits team really wanted all 3 parts of CAP, and he specifically provided mechanisms to achieve availability and partition tolerance, such as adding load balancers.

Other notes: 
Fast, low-latency, scalable (CAP requirements in class)
Data consistency
DOmain name registered ro 2 diff IP addresses for multi-server arch to load balance
Introduce an actual load balancer with a distinct ip address, DNS is located at that address and users send to that load balancer
Load-balancer can also do health/heartbeak checks to see which alive which aren't (related to class) 

If the load-balancer dies? Add multiple load balancers as a result (can't we also do heartbeat to the load-balancer as well?)

User traffic will be much longer if they're further away from the server, even if we add another server closer, the load balancer is still far away, and lots of traffic (went all the way to other country to come back) --> Solution, add a load balancer to the closer location

Questions: What happens if you get datacenter requests that you can't fulfill locally to the user? E.G a User in Asia needs NV-Linked GPUs for their performance but the asia datacenters only uses Infiniband or something, do you take more latency by rerouting to a location that has that compute or do you reject the request?

Anycast routing

horizontal scaling is better


